Hello, I am Victor Annie Barber, and this is Iron Sharpens Iron.
Now, so far in our series, we've discussed how we can become more effective at our ministry
in a number of different ways, such as by starting conversations, asking questions,
and getting better at return visits.
But these techniques only work if we actually find people to talk to.
And sometimes, that can be our greatest challenge.
Have you ever had days like this in the ministry when it seemed that there was just no one to talk to?
If so, you'll be pleased to know that our literature is full of tips that can help us contact more people in our territory.
In this episode, we will consider three that have proved to be very effective.
Tip number one, be observance.
There may actually be more opportunities for us to contact people if we actually know where to look.
Take, for example, our brothers and sisters that we were just watching.
Now, it is true that there was no one at home, but does that mean there was no one to talk to?
Well, let's see.
Hey!
You're a dog, you're so cute. What's the same?
And just like that, a conversation is underway.
Now, how about our couple getting back into their car?
By being observant, they too were able to give a witness.
The more observant we are, the more opportunities we may find.
The key is to remain focused on our objective, which is to give a witness.
And that can happen in between doors, just as easily as it could happen at the doors.
So how about our tip number two?
It is be prepared.
How often have you encountered someone in your territory who doesn't speak your language?
You know, growing up in London, this used to happen all the time.
But these days, it's not just big cities where we find this mixture of culture and languages.
The whole world is becoming so much more cosmopolitan.
So what can we do to be prepared?
Well, we don't have the gift of tongues like the 1st century Christians did at Pentecost.
But we do have the gift of J. W. Language.
Now, with this app, you can learn a simple presentation in dozens of different languages.
Let's take a look.
It's designed in a very easy to use manner.
First, set the primary language to the one you speak,
and the target language to the one you want to learn.
Then, under preaching skills, choose greetings and introductions.
To learn how to say a simple hello.
And, I'm pleased to meet you.
Do we know each other?
I think I made a mess of that.
Alright, again, Dobryden, Priemno, Posna Jomitisa.
Well, I still need to work on my accents, but I think you get the idea.
With a little practice, you can ask simple questions and even introduce and explain a scripture.
It really works.
Let's look at an example.
Hi there, we're making brief visits on our neighbor.
Oh, Arabic?
Yes.
What's your name?
My name is Abba.
Did you speak Arabic in Arabic?
Yes.
What?
I've taught you a great way to give a witness to even more in our territory.
Now, if mastering a whole presentation in another language seems a bit overwhelming,
then here's a simple suggestion.
Just learn a greeting.
It's only a few words, but don't underestimate the power of greeting someone in their native tongue and with a warm smile.
It can certainly open up doors, and it could also pave the way for you to call back with someone who does speak their language.
And that brings us on to our third tip.
Be diligent and follow up.
Which, first of all, means trying to contact all those who weren't home initially, either on a different day or at a different time.
And if you can't find them in that way, then don't overlook letter writing and telephone witnessing.
These methods prove very effective during the pandemic.
And even now, they can still help us to reach those we can't find at home.
Regardless of what way we have contacted someone,
please be sure not to forget them, but return promptly to follow up on any interest that you have found.
You know, reaching everyone in our territory is definitely a challenge.
But the tips we've discussed here today, one being observant, two being prepared, and three being diligent as we follow up on interest that we find,
can help all of us fully accomplish our ministry.
If we do that, we'll be imitating Jesus, who wanted to give everyone an opportunity to come to know Jehovah.